Maran even as I was listening to you I
was getting the information that we have
a Hamas statement that has just been put
out and so I'm glad that I'm talking to
you because I'd like to read it together
and then get your uh reaction to it here
is the statement
Hamas has rejected allegations that it
committed uh crimes against women and
children these are this is the quote
some Western media Outlets continue to
spread Zionist slander and lies about
our Palestinian people in their
resistance which falsely and
slanderously promoted allegations that
members of the Palestinian resistance
beheaded children and assaulted women
without any evidence to support their
lies and claims Hamas strongly condemns
the baseless
allegations Maran let's let's talk a
little bit about this um this is
significant because those um those AC
accusations are something that have
grown louder and louder over the last
few days um now Hamas is clearly owning
up to the fact that it killed
deliberately killed um hundreds and
hundreds of Israelis but it seems
they're saying there's a red line and
that we did not
do okay so let's start with the the
latter part there is no doubt according
again to the two Scholars we just heard
on inside story that isra that Hamas
Hamas is in breach of inter interational
humanitarian law that the way it it took
its action uh in Black
Saturday against Israeli civilians and
so on so forth is in breach of
international law there is no doubt
about that and it could be defined as a
terrorist act did it be HD children and
rape women and so on so forth no because
the news that first came out from the
Los Angeles Times have already been
retracted so now it's just being uh you
know used as uh as fake information on
the web and of course as you know the
web especially under mosque you never
know you know how how how it will
multiply and mutate throughout the world
but clearly there was no beheading of
children and there is no such thing but
I think those who are trying to make the
case for land Invasion and for the
anation not only of Hamas of the or even
of the Palestinian people as animals
they are the ones who are already
equating the you know 710 with 911 right
they're saying that what happened to
Israel is 911 and Hamas is like alqaeda
and Hamas beads children and Hamas is
trying to be slick like Isis and Hamas
hates the Jews and as Biden said its
sole reason for existence is to kill
Jews so already there is a demonizing
process by Israel and its pundits and
its NE conservative allies in the United
States and elsewhere to make the case
for repeat of to the 2003 war or the
2011 invasion of Afghanistan basically
saying that Hamas is something like the
United States has already experience and
we know what the results is and hence
there is no diplomacy or peace with
Hamas Hamas has to be dismantled and it
has to be defeated and it has to be
ended that kind of comparison is first
of all wrong second it is sensationalist
and third it will lead to the wrong
decisions because Hamas unlike alqaeda
unlike Isis and so on so forth had a
very particular nationalist agenda and
it never acted outside of the borders of
Palestine it didn't doesn't have an
international agenda Hamas has always
functioned within the parameters of
historic Palestine and even though it
did take actions that are certainly
could be defined as terrorist actions
this is a nationalist movement that used
unsavory tactics but they always stayed
within the logic of resistance against
what they call their occupiers of the
past 55 years and Marwan I think I think
this is a really interesting and
important point because Hamas has not
spoken that much since the beginning of
this War and what they have said their
statements so far um have been about
military things um the the bombardment
of Gaza uh they publicly said that they
would start killing um people that
they're holding captive if uh targets
civilian Targets in Gaza were hit
without prior warning that has been
their communication so far this
statement the one that I just read you
and that you've been talking about tells
us one very very simple thing in
addition to everything you've just said
that Hamas cares about its Public Image
yes they have killed hundreds of people
and they clearly own up to that they're
not denying it um and they have claimed
responsibility for that attack there is
zero doubt about that but they care
about their Public Image
absolutely um you know this is a
nationalist movement that Pride itself
of being uh you know the protector of
its people the representative of its
people let's not forget that back in
2006 they won the legislative elections
and uh they have remained popular
although they're not as popular in Gaza
but they are more popular in the West
Bank so the fact that their leaders have
sacrificed once and again and they spend
uh decades in jail uh it's still
appreciated by a certain segment of the
Palestinian people I'm not sure all
Palestinian people support the action of
last weekend I'm not sure how many do we
haven't conducted any surveys but I'll
tell you what it is in the eyes of Hamas
and its supporters this was a collective
suicide attack because all 14500 Hamas
Fighters that went in did not leave
right they all been killed so this is in
so many ways a collective suicide attack
that took with them more than a thousand
Israel or a thousand Israelis which is
all in by itself is is just of course
horrific and tragic but in the end of
the day they have not bombed Israel from
from the air they have not stayed safe
these people sacrificed their lives to
kill civilians and soldiers and so on so
forth so they are involved on logic
gorilla logic a symmetrical Warfare
logic of resistance against occupation
and they've said for years we've tried
other ways and means they did not work
and according to them they are this they
are left with no other option but to
resist Israel with uh you know with with
force with violence they took that
decisions and now they're taking the
responsibility for it unfortunately a
lot of people in Gaza in addition to
those in Israel are paying the price and
I think as you and I were speaking
before blink um you know went on air
that the predictions about hundreds of
thousands perhaps uh tens of thousands
perhaps hundred thousands of casual of
deaths in Gaza of course is something
that we all in this world must stop uh
must try to stop anywhere and to to to
the last point about just before I
forget which is the point
about uh safe passage right because this
again goes to your point on about Hamas
I'm not sure what do they mean by safe
patches so they're gonna what let out uh
a million gazin into the Sinai where
they going to go in the Sinai what are
they going to do in the
I mean what are you going to do exactly
like ship out a million people to where
Cairo and and what what guarantees that
they will be able to go back because the
entire tragedy of this called Palestine
started with the idea that Israelis
threw them out and when they won't let
them back in so what guarantees as soon
as you make a safe passage is that these
Palestinians will be allowed to come
back not to their homes but to their
alternative
refugee camps and and and Villages and
so on and so forth in Gaza second I'm
not sure Hamas is going to allow it
because it's afraid of exactly that
expulsion this will be a safe passage
right but it's a pretext to expulsion
because that's what Israel does it wants
to ship as many people as possible and
third no one in Palestine including the
Palestinian Authority and Hamas do not
want to make uh Israel's job easier for
the Israeli Army right because
now it's not exactly that they're hiding
behind civilian population they are part
of the civilian population this is not a
professional army they are the young men
and women of Gaza and they are fighting
occupation so their parents and
grandparents and cousins of of these
Fighters and so they live there right so
that's their families there that's what
makes this conflict this asymmetrical
conflict so complicated and so tragic
and Israel knows that and that's why we
keep talking about the fact that there
is no military solution to this even
Hamas once it's destroyed militarily and
administratively how they going to
destroy the idea of Hamas the idea of
Hamas is apparently more popular in the
West Bank and in the Palestinian Refuge
camps then it is in Gaza and once you
destroy Hamas how are you going to
destroy that idea of Hamas in Gaza which
is the idea of resistance until Justice
is attained Nam